README.md, before:

# Race-AI

## Quickstart

To be able to play around with the manual car you can start a http server in
the race directory and open the browser at `localhost:8000`.

```console
cd race
python -m http.server
```

To run the python training script you have to install the dependencies using
venv and run the training script.

```console
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python src/train.py
```

## Plan

- [X] Implement racing game
    - [X] Map generation (Should be a simple map made with waypoints)
    - [X] Implement a car object that can be moved on the canvas
    - [X] Implement Game Objects to make the Car generation and draw easier
        - [X] Implement Renderer Object to draw shape easier
    - [X] Implement a game loop that takes input from user
    - [X] Implement a game loop that waits input from stdin for training
    - [X] Implement a class that will output data for model input
    - [X] Implement the reward
    - [X] Implement model loading and wait input functions
    - [X] Create more tracks
- [ ] Implement RL algorithm to play the racing game
    - [X] Implement OpenAI Gym environment that will use subprocess to run the game
    - [X] Implement DQN algorithm to train a simple model
    - [X] Export model (Maybe to JSON)
    - [X] Implement a game loop that will load the model and use it to generate input
    - [ ] Improve model performance

Commit message:

feat: added reward function file and readme

README.md, after:

# Race-AI

## Quickstart

To be able to play around with the manual car you can start a http server in
the race directory and open the browser at `localhost:8000`.

```console
cd race
python -m http.server
```

To run the python training script you have to install the dependencies using
venv and run the training script.

```console
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python src/train.py
```

### Reward Function

To change the default behaviour of the training you can also change the reward function given in [race/rewardFunction.js](race/rewardFunction.js). The reward function receives two arguments, the agent information and the track information.
The `trackInfo` object will contain the `width` and `waypoints` properties. The `width` is the with of the track (from center to the edge). The waypoints variable is an array of `engine.Point` with the waypoints that make the racing track.
The `agentInfo` object contains the player's `position` (Point) and `rotation` (number), the waypoint index of the last passed waypoint `waypointIndex` and the index of the waypoint that the player has to reach `nextWaypointIndex`. The `agentInfo` object has some additional helper properties such as `distanceFromTrack` to determine the distance of the car from the center and `progressDelta` to determine the progress made by the player since the last call to the reward function.

#### Arguments

`agentInfo`
- `position`: `engine.Point` x axis from left to right, y axis from top to bottom
- `rotation`: `number` in radians
- `waypointIndex`: `number` \[0, `waypoints.length`\]
- `nextWaypointIndex`: `number` \(`waypointIndex`+1\)%`waypoints.length`
- `distanceFromTrack`: `number` \[0, inf\]
- `progressDelta`: `number` \[-inf, inf\]
`trackInfo`
- `width`: `number` constant value, default = 50
- `waypoints`: `Point[]` constant value, default `track.track_waypoints.simple`

#### Returns 

- `number`

### Torch Hyperparameters

TODO

## Plan

- [X] Implement racing game
    - [X] Map generation (Should be a simple map made with waypoints)
    - [X] Implement a car object that can be moved on the canvas
    - [X] Implement Game Objects to make the Car generation and draw easier
        - [X] Implement Renderer Object to draw shape easier
    - [X] Implement a game loop that takes input from user
    - [X] Implement a game loop that waits input from stdin for training
    - [X] Implement a class that will output data for model input
    - [X] Implement the reward
    - [X] Implement model loading and wait input functions
    - [X] Create more tracks
- [ ] Implement RL algorithm to play the racing game
    - [X] Implement OpenAI Gym environment that will use subprocess to run the game
    - [X] Implement DQN algorithm to train a simple model
    - [X] Export model (Maybe to JSON)
    - [X] Implement a game loop that will load the model and use it to generate input
    - [ ] Improve model performance
